From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
79. Recorded live Friday, September 11th, 2009.
Support for Hansel minutes is
provided by teller RD controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com in
this unusual episode of Hansel
minutes, organized late night over
Twitter and recorded as a
community conference. Call Scott moderates,
a discussion on open source
and the new code flex
foundation. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and this
is an interesting episode of
Hansel minutes because we have
spent the last one hour
trying to record this episode.
We tried it on Ustream.
I tried it on denim.
I tried it on a
tiny chat and now we're
trying it on a thing
called talk shoe, which talks
shoe.com. Honestly, I think I
should've just tried my gut
reaction, which was live meeting.com
instead I did not. And
I tried this. People were
having all sorts of trouble
with managing a conference call
of this size. I've got
a number of people called
in though here on the,
on the talk shoe. And
I've got this very strange
interface from the, from the
nineties. I've just un-muted Scott.
She rentals. So you there,
Scott I'm here. Isn't this,
isn't this thrilling, this talk
shoe.com. What do you think
of this? This is like
the wave of the future.
I'm telling you how you
series a web, a web
based conference calling management system.
You think this is how
we should do this thing?
No, I don't. Yes. This
is deeply not working for
me. I think a live
meeting probably would have best
thing to be. The idea
is that I want to
record a podcast and I
want people to call in
life. I think that, but
Jeff Atwood, coding horror has
a really nice system where
he's got people calling in
to a, basically a voice
recorder, like a voicemail. And
then he plays the wave
file of those people. Who've
called it over the course
of the last week in
any, any answers them? I
don't know that that's one,
that's one system, but I
don't know if it's necessarily
the white system. Let me
see if we got Scott Barnes
and get him on muted
here. This is a strangled
interface we've got where I
actually click on somebody and
I wait like 10 seconds
and then they get un-muted.
Scott. Are you there other
Scott? There's three Scott's right
now. Scott Barnes? Yeah, I'm on
the iPhone. Okay. So if
we've got our third Scott,
who's logged in on an
iPhone, a Microsoft employee. That's
a, that's just pretty bad.
We've got three Scott's on
the call. Is there one
here? Have an iPhone. Is
that what's going on? I've
located on the computer. I
was gonna shut down. Now.
I'm just desperate to talk
to you, Scott. I know
you couldn't have just chatted
me. Alright. I'm going to
unmute someone named 10 because
I'm a little concerned. This
is probably someone evil, someone
in guest, 10 Italian guests,
10 unnamed guests. Who are
you? That's me soon. How's
it going? Where are you
calling from? Calling from Colorado.
Yeah. And why are you
up so late on a
Friday night because I have
insomnia. We've got a number
of people who haven't told
me. We were talking earlier
with Yoho from Israel, the
unit testing expert. And he's
actually on the chat too.
He's up at about seven
in the morning and Israel,
his daughter kept him up
all night and he has
followed us all the way
over to here as well.
I'm gonna unmute a couple
of more people. We've got
John Shannon, Ryan Farley on the phone.
Ryan, are you there? Yeah,
I'm here. This is interesting.
I feel like I'm suddenly
on a Leal, the port,
a podcast. I don't know
if that's a good thing
or a bad thing, but
I must say most people
know who Leo deport is
and they know who I
am. So I got to
give a Leo the prompts
for that. What was it?
The Ryan Farley that does a
lot of cell phones integration.
I think so, Ryan either.
Yes, that's me. This is,
this is nice. It's a
nice little, little, little community
we've got going here. People
logged in. It's amazing though,
2009 and we can't find
a decent place to do
this. It was a shame.
You know, one thing we
could do would actually be
leave our homes and go
to where people are, would
be one idea that we
could potentially just the thought
might be a little, a
little out there, a little
revolutionary, but actually speaking to
humans. Excellent support is really
great. That's that is true.
That is true. I'm surprised
we couldn't get the video
thing working. I noticed that
when we were trying this
before using a tool called
tiny chat, we were using
a flash based interface and
we were all trying to
broadcast our video. I think
they allow you to do
12 video slots, but the,
the, the lag was just
horrendous and on Ustream I
could, you could see me,
but I could only see
you via chat. Another guy
who does this kind of
stuff is, is Chris Parillo
also I think extremely famous
for being famous. Really? And
he does this stuff. Does
he use Ustream or what
is, what does Chris use?
He series everything on Ustream.
Is there anything on your
stream? Oh yeah, I guess
he's got three. A's actually
live right now on Ustream
with 308 people. I'm not
even sure what he's doing
right now, but I'm going
to click on it and
see what's going on here.
People are chatting with this
guy. He lives online, broadcasting
live. He's got his giant
and he's got a whole,
a chat thing on the
bottom of the screen. People
are watching. Chris is sitting
here with a glass of
wine. This is really even
sad. Or do you realize
that we're in one tool
talking about a geek in
another tool? Really? Ultimately we
all just a bunch of
tools at this point. So
not too good. Hey, did
anyone see the copex flex
announcement that we saw this
week where Microsoft announced the
creation of the code flex
foundation? So you guys see
that yes. Any about that?
I know Roy Joshua had
some opinions, Roy, It was
kind of a nice to
me if I was a
good idea at first for
that, I have to read
bellwethers blog post gave me
more thoughts about the various
risks. And, and I'm especially
concerned about the fact that
it's a separate entity and
that Microsoft seems to still
again, do something, everything on
its own. It's like the
not invented here syndrome instead
of joining something that exists.
I just not to have
to recreate everything from the
beginning and to create its
own identity and to, to
actually put it inside Microsoft
belly instead of putting it
out there. Well, at least
it seems that way that
it's going that direction. So
I think it's a good
idea at the very least.
So you, you, you actually
were concerned that it was
a separate entity. You didn't
think that was a good
idea. It doesn't the independence
of that entity equal a
good thing. Well, there are
already existing independent entities. Why
did Microsoft create another one
of their own? That's a
really good question. I, again,
I'm speaking only as Scott,
not as a represent, not
in the representative, Microsoft and
certainly not as anyone with
any kind of power, but
it seemed to me that
you've got the eclipse foundation,
which really supports eclipse. And
you've got the, the Apache
foundation, which supports Apache. Why
wouldn't you want a foundation
that was not tied to
a particular product? That seemed
like a good idea to
me. I think that's the
idea of the code books
foundation. Are there no foundations
that are not related to
specific products? I'm trying to
think of foundations that are
not specific to products. Anyone
here think about any of
foundations that are not specific
to a product And code
is complex products Flex isn't
a product called flex is
just a name SourceForge SourceForge
well SourceForge is that a
foundation? Is that actually an
open space? That of all
the size of course is,
is SourceForge a, a, an
independent, like a nonprofit, or
is that a corporation? I
thought for a minute it
was a sole source, but
I take it back. I
recall that, right. Well, there's
the free software foundation, right?
FSS, you know, it's a
good question, but see that,
that really supports the new
right. So free software supports
canoe and you know, and,
and Linux distribution. So that's
a very good question. I
think that Scott bellwether, his
article really kind of nailed
it for me though, because
it, it, it gives, it
gives.net a place to live.
It gives.net projects, a place
to live. I think that
if, if you get the,
what I think of it
as kind of the end
start out star stack, moving
over to COVID foundation, then
we could get some actual
strength in numbers we get
like in hibernate and then
unit and this, and then
that, that could be a
pretty good thing. Well, obviously
it's better than what we
have now. Everything is better
than what we have now.
The question is, could you
get it to, this has
been even better than that.
And that's what I'm not
sure about. And I think
that the fact that I'm
not one of those big
mainstream contributors to open source,
like a game day and
stuff like that makes me
understand less about this topic.
But I think that it's
dot net developers, we all
should know more about this
topic and the fact that
most are not developers don't
really care about this announcement
at all. Just show you
how not ingrained it is
in our culture. And I
think we should all be
involved in this just to
learn what it is, why
it's important for us to
know about it. And the
fact that I don't, I
can't even name those other
foundations. Not again, it's actually
a shame considering that we're
we were some of the
guys that care the most,
but we're still struggling to
figure this out. Now there's
a number of people who
were making comments here in
the chat, scrolling by one
individual said that while the
Apache foundation started with Apache
has lots of projects, certainly
underneath it, not just the
web server, including leucine, and
also it's got things that
aren't necessarily Java. They've got
ports from Java as well.
And then you've got, and
another person indicates that sourceforge.net
is owned and upgrades operated
by SourceForge incorporated, which is
actually a publicly traded us
company. So that is a,
that is interesting. You know,
we, we should, is there
anyone that knows about this
kind of stuff? It's interesting
around open source. That's so
many people speak authoritatively. They
did make a lot of
declarations that it is so,
but they don't necessarily, there's
no way to tell whether
they're just talking or whether
they know what they're talking
about. You know, we need
to get like a Sam
Ramji, something like that to
help break it down because
it changes so often that
I, I personally have trouble
keeping up with it. Maybe
there should be a whole
podcast you can do, and
just get a few of
those people in there and
get some questions from the
community. Yeah. That is the
next idea. People should feel
free to email me@scotthaatmicrosoft.com and
make suggestions to about who
they would want on a,
on like the, the ideal
open source panel to get
some of these questions answered.
I can certainly pull in
people from the copex foundation.
One individual of course just
made up a very valid,
very important point that we
really can't can't emphasize enough,
which is a complex.com is
not copex.org. And a lot
of people have complained about
the naming of cope, but
it's too confusing. And personally,
I think the.org, Oregon, the.com
top level domain is pretty
specific. We also pointed out
that we've got Sarah Ford, who
is the owner of covid.com
she's on the advisory board.
And her job is to
make sure that, that we
stay separate because you're not
a code books. Dot com
is a, is a Microsoft
thing. And you'll notice if
you look at the, the
licensing that the Copa foundation
owns the name code flex
now, and they actually licensed
it back to COVID dot
dot com, which is
interesting. The nice that we
had a couple of people
log in to the, the
call here, and we can
get some more people speaking.
I think Jesse Macola is
on the, on the phone.
Let's see if he is
next in the queue here
to, to speak. We've got
some folks in the queue
who, who just came on
there, Dennis? Hi Dennis, on
Twitter. I'm coder Dennis. Right?
Right now the only sponsor
of the code plus flex
foundation, at least it shows
up on the website as
Microsoft. I think some of
these reactions that people are
having might be pushed aside
if there were other sponsors
besides Microsoft. Do you know
if that's something that's like
our other, if you take
a look at my yeah,
yeah, exactly. If you take
a look at my blog
and the comments, bill staples,
who was one of the
Microsoft general manager, she's the
general manager of kind of
a web stack, made some
comments where he wants to
point out that this was
a soft launch. It was
a launch that was not,
we weren't a hundred percent
prepared and we wanted to
start small. We figured that
in the interest of, of
transparency, why not start small
and say, this is something
that we're intending to do
as opposed to doing a
bunch of stuff that was
kind of hidden in the
background. So the intent is,
as I understand it in
the first hundred days to
get an all new board
that is going to be
less Microsoft and have a,
a chairman who is not
Sam Ramsey, Samar MPSP the
interim chairman for the first
hundred days. So it's kind
of one of those things
where it launched with no
projects and it launched really
in a very light way
and success isn't, shouldn't be
based on what happened today,
but success should be what
happens in a, in a
hundred days if we're having
this conversation, like, what the
heck is it for? And
we're doing this Christmas time,
then we have, then we
have a problem. Yeah. I
don't think it's a bad
thing that Microsoft sponsors that
foundation like this. I think
that's great. I think people
are having a really hard
time letting Microsoft change. I
mean, maybe they aren't, but
I think people, I don't
know, I think we should
give Microsoft a chance to
change. I think a lot
of people just aren't, that's
interesting. Someone's going to think
that you're a shell that
I've set you up to
soda. That's actually a really
very interesting thing to, to
say that people won't let
Microsoft change. Well, they, they
wanna like, like a gentleman
named soul Hunter just said
that people hang on to
a lot of the old
hate. Remember we saw recently
that Linus said that hating
Microsoft was a bit of
a disease. I think that
that is, is definitely true.
People. A mendicant just said,
let's get, let's get men
to get on the phone
here because he just made
an interesting point about giving
people a lot of power
mannequins. Are you were there
on the phone? Yeah. I'm
here. Go ahead and say
again, what you just said
in the chat. Oh, people
are wary because everyone sees
Microsoft as large and all
powerful, all of that, all
that sort of jazz. So
now by having control of
the, of this foundation, you're
arguably giving them more power
by putting all this IP
and property and code under
their control for as long
as they're on the board.
So, so I mean, like,
I can see why people
would be wary to say,
even though, you know, it's
not possible to put in
hibernate on there right now,
but to put a project
like in hibernate on there,
technically they could basically just
take it and run with
it. People. It was my
first reaction when I first
saw this. I, yeah, I
have a time. Trust is
going to be something that
we as a company and
I'm going to break down
in terms of, I think,
I think in the past
has been a feed minority
monitor issues, which is, I
kind of build that momentum.
And I think creating safe
Haven is like, this is
essentially, you know, taking another
step forward in sort of
breaking down that antitrust sort
of out share that it
does across the community sometimes.
And I mean, like from
my point of view, I,
you know, five years ago
I couldn't stand Microsoft. I'd,
you know, wouldn't run their
operating systems. I wouldn't run
anything, but being involved on
the.net side of things and
seeing the change and seeing
the direction kind of, they're
trying to make the right
move. So I've really, you
know, kind of lightened up
on that a lot, you
know, but there's more, that
needs to be changed, but
it's not going to happen
overnight. Right? Yeah. Janitor just
made a comment. I want
to hear him say, go
see there's people who hate
Microsoft to hate Microsoft, no
matter what they do. There's
a guy, as I understand
it, who's not allowed to
participate in certain code camp
events as a speaker in
Boise, because all he does
is rant about how much
he hates Microsoft. I came
from the Unix Linux world.
I started.net in mano. I
didn't own a windows license
and I did it just
kind of on my own
through work. And now I'm
a full time.net developer. And
let's hear from guests 94,
who's just come into the
queue. Let's go ahead and
unmute, unmute you. Are you
there guests? 94. Yeah. It's
me Rob Connery. How are
you? Oh, hi, Rob. How
are you doing good, mr.
Scott. Good to see John
said, Hey, you gotta
get on this call. Right?
Sure. Why not? It's so
funny. And you, you came
on and you could not
actually change your name. You
figured out how to get
into the queue and you
called yourself guest 94. So
sneaky. It's cryptic it's code.
What do you think about
the, the announcement Rob? I
think it's awesome. I think
if you're a Microsoft shill
not anymore. Well, the interesting
thing about it is that,
you know, I can, I
can speak, I can speak
rather freely now. And I,
that it was, you know,
it was something that was
fought for long and hard.
And I was in some
initial discussions. I wasn't any
part of making it happen,
but I was in some
initial discussions about it. And
I remember thinking at the
time when the thing came
up, you have right. You
know, but I gotta say
it happens and kudos and
congratulations to everyone that needed
to happen. I think it's,
it's interesting now as to
what's going to happen in
the future with it. Oh,
you know what? I think
it's an opportunity to still
work with today. And I
can't believe everyone's saying this
today. I can't believe I'm
quoting Boulware. No, that was
pretty funny. I saw a
number of people on Twitter
that were saying, we hear
I'm going to retweet bellwether,
but I think that the
has got some good points.
We've got another guy who
just asked to be in
the queue here called the
one. Are you there? Hey
guys, I did have a
quick question with having just
a glance over the pot
or the blog posts. Can
you give me any idea
of what this foundation is
actually going to oversee? Okay.
So, so by having a,
as I understand it as
having the, the organization be
its own entity, it is
a separately, you know, kind
of wholly owned thing. It's
not controlled by Microsoft. Microsoft.
Can't tell it what to
do. This would allow open
source projects to assign their
copyrights to it today. You
would, they would get the
resources of the foundation. The
foundation can, is this kind
of a, a, like a,
what kind of drawing is
drawing a circle around a
bunch of people who think
the same and giving it,
giving it a name. Okay,
great. Thanks. And the idea
I think is to bring
those, those open source projects
under, as, as Scott Beller
says under his auspices, let's
see what Scott Coon thinks
about that Scott did. Does,
does this do anything or
is this just a press
release? There's a couple of
things that I think same,
or we had a good
point, but he was hoping
they would follow the, the
eclipse or Apache model, which
is, which is more that
they assign the licenses and
the contributions are actually owned
by the foundation. And I
think from that respect that
the foundation then takes any
legal hits or is responsible
for finagling around any new
patent issues or anything like
that. I think that would
be a good thing because
that's the number one complaint
people have about using OSS
is that, you know, how
do I know, how can
I vet it's pedigree? How
do I know that I'm
not going to get sued
for patent infringement and blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. And
all of that. So I
think if they get to
that point where they're, they're
actually, you know, accepting the
contributions and distributing licenses or,
or, or taking licenses, I
think it's going to be
a really good thing. I'd
also like to see a
little bit more, and I
talked about this a little
bit, or Lauren Clooney, I
think had mentioned this a
little bit when I was,
when I was venting on,
on Twitter about the foundation,
that there may be some
possible financial support grants, et
cetera, coming in, you know,
maybe there was, of course,
none of this is finalized
because it sounds like, you
know, they're, if they're at
the toddler stage, they've just
figured out how to walk
into this open source land.
And you know, they're not
steady yet. Well, we're we're,
and we're clearly behind. I
mean, it's nice that this
is happening, but I think
a lot of people that
think very valid points and
they said that it really
should have happened years ago.
Hey everybody, this is Scott
coming at you from another
place in time. Summer is
peaking. And our friends at
Tellerik are working at full
steam. They've just released the
Q2 volume of the telework
premium collection for.net. The biggest
release yet it's packed with
new things, that'll excite anyone.
Who's got to do anything
with that development, starting with
Silverlight and the introduction of
the first commercial 3d chart
in the market it's developed
as a true vector 3d,
which gives you a nice
performance enriched capabilities with rotation
and animations. Also the Silverlight
scheduler, which is packed with
even more features in the
first version. Telerx flagship rad
controls for asp.net. Ajax grows
in this release, not only
with four new controls, but
also with new productivity tools.
There's the new visual style
builder and online application that
allows you to visually modify
skins or even design new
ones with just point and
click. If that's not enough,
they've added a completely new
product, a free testing framework
powered by art of test
for automating Ajax. And Silverlight
rich internet applications. I'm short
on time. So I can't
give you all the new
features and enhancements until our
reporting open-access RM or wind
forms, but I encourage you
to check out all of
these products@tellerik.com. Thanks Fabio from,
from in hibernate is bring
out about a point here
where he says that he
really needs someone to protect
the N hibernate copyright and
other people have made the
comments like John Clayton just said,
is this COVID place foundation
can actually help commercial software
developers use open source, or
is it just gonna give
them warm fuzzies to make
people to make people feel
comfortable? Let's see, we've got
Scott Reynolds is back on Scott.
Yeah, I think warm fuzzies
maybe, and, and actually helping
get people using open source
would be ideal. One of
the biggest complaints, a lot
of us in the community
have had for a long
time is that it's, you
know, we do have a
lot of great open source
projects in the.net space, and
it's hard to get them
legitimize, you know, in kind
of the larger corporate development
world. And Microsoft never seemed
to be doing much to
help that. And, and rather
than, than help, they would
often reinvent the wheel and,
and send out in this
test for the big corporate
dev shops. So what I'm
hoping, we'll see out of
this either by actual action
on the code Plex foundation
or, or even just having
the association is, is that
we get some of that
legitimizing factor so that open
source can get into a
wider corporate development world. That's
an interesting point about, about
corporate development. One of the
things that I think got
us kind of in trouble
when we put the, the
blogs out there and when
I put my post out
is I use the word,
you know, commercial. It seems
like if you say the
word commercial in the same
sentence as open source than
you are kind of Satan's
minion. I think that that's,
you know, people say, Oh,
he's commercial. It's not a
good idea, but I spent
many, many years working at
a bank and company trying
to get open source, okay.
To run in large banks.
I'm interested in folks on
the call about what they
think about, is it difficult
and has, have they had
trouble? And if they had,
if you could say, well,
you know, there's a foundation
out there that can help
us navigate the licensing of
open source code and commercial
projects. Would that be easier?
We had another guy on
the queue here, ft fry.
D are you there, sir?
FD fry. Yeah, I'm here.
Actually. I was actually going
to speak directly to that
commercial question. I find it
that one of the challenges
is, you know, handling the
licensing of, of utilizing open
source. But another challenges is
just, you know, getting buy
in that it's, you know,
up to speed with what
the other commercially available products.
I mean, Microsoft specifically, I
think has a lot of
word of mouth reputation about
having, you know, magic, you
know, whether it's, you know,
a team of developers that
are able to tweak every
last drop of performance out
of a new feature that
has never been seen before,
you know, 200, 500 developers
that are locked away in
some case. And where, you
know, I mean, I think
that open source is so
much more transparent. We can
see the total number of
contributors and things like that,
but we also know that
just can't stack up against
the, you know, the, the
hidden secrets that, you know,
people say that, you know,
happened to surround Microsoft, you
know, you know, releases straight
out. Do you think that,
do you guys think that
having the foundation is just
Microsoft trying not to look
evil, but they are in
fact still evil or is
this back to that point
about, you know, is this
for a, for selfish reasons?
Do you guys think that
there's something underneath this or
is this an honest attempt
to do something to do
something right? I'm willing to
give them the benefit of
the doubt here and see
where it goes and, and
not describe any ulterior motives
yet. I'd like to think
that this is, this is
actually a legitimate attempt to
do some good. And I
agree, I think they have
a lot to gain, but,
you know, for, you know,
pushing the adoption of, of.net
technologies and other technologies in
general, by getting more people
involved, I think they've got,
you know, good reasons to
be completely selfless in this
act. Okay. Let's see what
Roy has to say. Yeah.
I think Microsoft is, is
I think there are two
faces there. I think there
is a higher up level
where it's purely an internal
interest of Microsoft to be
more open, to opensource, to
get more business and get
more people interested because that's
where the wind is blowing,
but that higher up, or
the gave the Baton to
people who actually do care
and we're going to do
grids. So I think we're
going to get the good
out of what was initially
just a self-interests. I can't
make a comment here on
the note, if being immediate
is, is good enough or
should I wait? What you
just say your name first?
Okay. This is all a
Hunter Kent. And what I
was going to say was,
I think that this is
this kind of points out
the part of the problem
with moving to the open
source community in the sense
that, you know, you hear
a lot of stuff about
open source is good for
business, that we should be
open to the open source
stuff, because in addition to
everything else, that's going to
help us make money and,
and make a good product
and whatever. But when someone
takes them up on that,
when Microsoft makes a move,
there's always this question, are
they doing it for pure
motive, which is supposed to
be better, or are they
doing it in their self
interest? And I guess my
point is, we've been told
that those are the same
things that we can do
well by doing good. But
then when you do that,
it's not good enough. Like
if you're not a starving
artist working for the good
of everybody by yourself, but
suddenly every move you make
just never measures up. And
I think Microsoft's getting that
heat, you know, that are
they doing it for the
right reasons or are they
doing it to make money
and gain customers, but aren't
those right reasons. The business
wants to make money. That's
wonderful having a business and
it's okay to want to
make money. It's okay. Just
to support an opensource while
we want to make money.
I don't think there's a
problem with them. And I
agree there is a hi,
this is Roy. By the
way, I agree there is
a high anti commercial, and
I feel that having worked
for a commercial related tool
company that does have open
source related tools that compete
against it at some level,
there is a high level
of antitrust from the community.
You're wanting to be good
and wanting to make money
at the same time. So
I just want to understand,
like, Yeah, I like to
think of this as myself.
I mean, I like open
source, but I like open
source in the way that
I like free Legos. I've
always felt that the things
that should be open sourced
are the Legos of some
appropriate size. The, when I
was working at the banks,
putting the enlarge retail banking
systems, I was thrilled to
find things of an appropriate
size, like log for net
and then units and all
the end, you know, the
end stack. But I don't
think that I would want
to open source the intellectual
property in any large online
banking system. I think that,
I think it's nice when
Legos are appropriately licensed and
have a right size, and
then you build something awesome
with it. I wouldn't expect
for someone to build something
amazing and then suddenly opensource
that until it, it taught,
fit the community until the,
the, the size and the
topic until I have become
commoditized, I guess, is what
I'm saying. You know, I
don't think logging impressive. I
don't think, Oh, IRM is
such an amazing thing that
someone should have to go
and patent the heck out
of it. Those are the
kinds of things that should
just be, they should just
work. So do you guys
feel that the size of
most open source projects, the,
the scope of what they
try to solve is appropriately
sized right now? I think
a lot of these groups
take on, you know, we
tend to judge the entirety
of open source by the
five or six or seven
projects that have really done
something big and done it
really, really well, the Apaches
and whatever. And certainly those
are fantastic projects. And I
used them and I love
them, but most open source,
you know, there's nothing magic
about the open source sauce.
A lot of those projects
take on something and fail,
fail badly. And I think
it's because they try and
bite off more than they
can chew. And then there's
a lot of infighting and
who's going to do the
architecture. I think you can
only get so much effort
out of people who are
working for free before they
have to, they have to
make a living somehow couple
of points that I want
to answer that are going
by on the chat here.
Cause while we're having this
conversation in audio, we've got
people going on, live in
the chat. We had a
Fabio from in hibernate, ask
the question about licensing. And
as I understand it, and
again, I'm just speaking to
Scott. So very, very well
could make a mistake, but
there's nothing in the code,
flex foundation and foundation. There's
nothing in copex.org that is
specific to a particular license.
I would even go so
far to say, as copex.org,
doesn't prefer a license. It
doesn't even prefer MSPL. So
I think it would welcome
projects that are under other,
other licenses. I'm sure like
BSD would be a very
appropriate license that could, could
come under covid.org. And while
Plex may lean towards dotnet
projects. I don't think that
code flex is about necessarily
dotnet projects, just like the
Apache foundation does target towards
lamp, but there are other
things. And remember of course@coviddotorgisnotcovid.com.
And I think the sooner
that we get a, a
chairman head of the complex
foundation who is going to
be a non-Microsoft person in
the open source space, the
better that we're going to,
we're going to get, I
think that the better things
are going to be, we've
got Bob, the janitor who's
sitting in the queue here.
Let's see, we can unmute
Bob and see what Bob
has to say there. Bob
know I'm here. So I
came out of a very
heavy unit splenic shop and
came into this window shop
and it just blew me
away that they were so
anti open source. I couldn't
use any open source libraries,
no matter what they were.
I had to actually fight
to get them, to allow
me to download and unit.
And it was, I literally,
it blew me away that
we had such, Oh, no,
it opens for you. Can't
touch you. Can't touch it.
Oh, it's Microsoft. Oh yeah.
Whatever. So I actually started,
that's an interesting point. That's
a very interesting point because
interestingly enough, a lot of
people wanted to use code
and use, excuse me, use
jQuery even inside of Microsoft.
Then when Microsoft came out
and said, Hey, we're gonna,
you know, quote unquote release
jQuery. I think that was
already released. But basically by,
by, you know, wrapping our
large arms around jQuery and
giving it a virtual hug
that made it okay for
jQuery to be used by,
by opensource. Hopefully that that's,
you know, and I would
have to say also that
I said, let me, let
me, rather than saying, let
me ask you guys, don't
you feel more comfortable using
an Apache or an eclipse
or a, a product that
is under a foundation than
you do picking up a
piece of source. That's just
sitting on covid.com written by
some random dude who you've
never heard of, or do
you not, do you not
make any differentiation between a
project that it has the,
is under the auspices of
a foundation I'm interested. Let's
hear, let's hear the answer
to it. Let me actually,
let me, let me unmute
a mendicant there. What do
you think about that? This
is Mandela. And again, I
mean, I I'm coming from
a place that we're, we're
very heavy into opensource and
to me, like a foundation
doesn't really matter what matters
more is the reputation of
the project. You know, we'll,
we'll try stuff out, but
it's a lot easier to
a find a good project
and B be comfortable using
it. When you see other
people talking about it and
saying, you know, this is
great. Like we're, we're using
auto mapper now, which is
pretty new. And it took
us awhile to really kinda
finally go and check it
out. But you know, you
see a lot of people
saying, Hey, this is great.
You feel a lot better
about downloading it, whether or
not it's a part of
a foundation. Okay. Okay. Let's
see if we can get,
I think Joe Pruitt had an
interesting comment. Let's unmute Joe.
And see what he's got
to say. Are you there,
Joe? Yeah. I'm here now
guys. That's gone. Yeah. Yeah.
And a couple, couple of
comments coming across. I think
coming from a, you know,
a corporate standpoint, you had,
you had asked me to
point about, you know, somebody's
more likely to go with
a patchy or, you know,
somebody who's supported by a
larger foundation. And I think
that that depends on the
size of the project and,
and the components that you're
using. If you're using a
big framework, probably yes. You
want something, that's got a,
especially with how embedded it's
going to be in your
projects, right. Smaller components where
you can get the source
and like logging utilities, things
like that, that are critical
to these applications. Not necessarily
interesting, interesting point. We've got
a Wolf bite who is
in the queue here. Let's
unmute, we'll fight and see
what we'll find finance to
say. Yes. Yeah. What do
the foundations, why would it
be better than when it
was back? Yeah. Okay. You're,
you're, you're having a heck
of a time. It sounds
like you're on a sip
phone, but I heard you
say that you wanted to
know that why is this
particular product better under a
foundation and under another, is
there a, between projects that
are under, under no foundation
or whether something that has
suddenly been brought into the
code flux universe, the copex.org
universe, is that a, is
that a, a better project
or a more supportable project?
You'll be able to, as
a person who has an
open source project assign the
copyright over to the foundation,
it, Phil had decided that
he wanted to take the
subtext project and he could
a secret assign the copyright
of that over to the
code Plex foundation. And then
they would own that. And
then he would get a
license back. Ryan, Ryan Farley is
in the queue here to,
to speak. Yeah, I was
just going to mention on
the, on the whole question
of whether or not it
brings more validity to a
project that's supported by a
foundation rather than just something
that's hosted out there on
code blacks. You know, I
think as developers, we're more
open to use open source
things in the software that
we build more so than
a typical user of that
software might be. And, you
know, example of, you know,
Firefox part of the Mozilla.
I think that that is,
has a lot of growth
because it's supported by a
foundation rather than something that
somebody wrote. That's just hosted
out there on source sports.
For example, I think that
one of the things that's
a little bit difficult about
this, the creation of this
foundation is that because it
was, as they call it
a soft launch, it was
a, it really left a
lot more questions than, than
answers. I think that when
I was looking through the
fact myself, I would have
liked to have a lot
more clarity around, well, what
do I do now? And,
and are there going to
be monthly calls and how
can I get involved and
how do I get my
project to be supported and
be under the auspices of
the foundation? I think that
hopefully the people are obviously
interested. We're, we're sitting here
talking about it. So it
must be a, it must
be a topic that people
are interested in, but in
the, in the coming weeks,
we'll, we'll start to have
some additional transparency about what's
going on. We'll find out
who other advisors and other
members of the, of the
board of directors are gonna
be. And, and then started
hearing about how, what projects
are going to join up.
You know, I'd love to
see some of the big
name projects, the end hibernates
and the X units, and
then unit start to get
involved so that someone could
point at the, the copex
foundation. And, and just by
saying, Oh yeah, don't don't
they have don't they haven't
hibernate. Yeah. There's a lot
of people, a lot more
people are involved in, in
hibernate because of the fact
that they're in the foundation.
Now he's Scott, can you
address the issue regarding, you
know, focused on dotnet technologies?
Cause all the examples you
gave are.net based. Is there,
yeah, that's a good point
fronting with some non.net based
technology. I, I didn't get
from the whole, you know,
FAC and things like that,
where the focus of the
foundation is going to be
with technology base. Again, speaking
only as only as Scott,
as I understand it, Microsoft
created the foundation because they
thought that there was a,
a missing piece out there
that a lot of existing
foundations are there to, to,
to basically support an existing
foundation. And they didn't want
to create the kind of
the windows foundation or the
visual studio foundation, but they
did have an interest in
helping commercial companies use open
source. And as someone who's
worked really only in commercial
companies, I've never actually worked
for an open what you
would call an open source
company. I've always worked at
companies where just mentioning open
source, got us afraid, and
being able to, you know,
call a foundation or have
a foundation assist us and
say, this license is compatible
with your, your business goal.
And if you use software
into these licenses, or if
you license your software in
this way, or being able
to explain dual licenses, that
we might be able to
use more open source software
in commercial projects. I also
think that as a Microsoft
employee and I noticed, and
I'd be interested in if
there's any Microsoft employees on
the call right now that
I want to work on
open source projects. And you
probably know, as a, as,
as people who either are
in the Microsoft universe or
you orbit the Microsoft universe,
that Microsoft is notoriously picky
about what employees, if any,
they allowed to work on
opensource projects. They really prefer
that if you're working for
Microsoft, you're not be doing
open source. I think in
my opinion, that the foundation
represents the beginning of a
change so that, you know,
somebody's working on some project
at Microsoft, let's say that
they're working on a photo
editor at Microsoft. Cause it's
not like we haven't got
enough of those. If that
person wants to work on
it hibernate and then hibernate
has nothing to do with
the photo editor. And it's
two different pieces of technology,
two different pieces of intellectual
property. That there's no reason
that someone couldn't be able
to work in their spare
time and donate their time.
Basically, even as a Microsoft
employee to this is not
for profit entity, this separate
entity that they could potentially
have their employee, their employee
agreement set up such that
I can work at my
photo editor at my job
at Microsoft. And I can
work on an hibernate at
night and, and it's, and
it's okay. And imagine if
kind of Microsoft released the
bonds of all of these
developers at Microsoft potentially, and
I'm just speculating here to
think about what we could
do. If more Microsoft employees,
good engineers could start working
on open source projects. I
don't know, it'd be pretty
cool. This is my belief,
and this is my hope
I, where the direction things
will go. But again, I'm
only on the board of
advisors. I'm not on the
board of directors. And I
think you guys realize the
difference between directing something and
advising advisors sit in the
back seat and scream while
the car's, where is out
of control. And directors typically
have control of the wheel.
I'd go to the first
guy who spoke. And that
was me. I was just
going to ask what your
personal stances on things like
nerd dinner or baby smash
or things that you work
on that are more along
the lines of samples, but
you know, still have some
of your personal, I mean,
how do you feel about
that? You know, releasing it,
not releasing it licensing, you
know, that kind of thing,
try to release everything that
I work on as MSP
L. And there's also an,
some talk about a new
rule inside of Microsoft, where
to make it easier to
release code. Sometimes Microsoft employees
were released small samples and
find it difficult to go
through the legal hoops. But
as I understand that, that
if it's under a, under
a thousand lines of code,
then we can call it
a sample. And a Microsoft
employee can potentially release less
than a thousand lines of
code without having to worry
about the licensing. Cause that
is the know about the
size of a reasonable sample
for larger things. I just
released as much as I
can and MSP out. And
that doesn't mean that I
wouldn't like to make money.
Honestly, if I turned to
baby smash, baby smash.com, by
the way, I'm into an
open, into an open source
educational toolkit, I would be
thinking he really awesome. I
could build a whole community,
build a corporation around it
and we can make a
big, I could make the
speak and spell.net, you know,
and make lots of money.
But it seemed to me
like releasing things like that
as MSPs is a better
idea. But remember back to
the discussion of Lego sizes,
both Nour dinner, and, and
baby smash, you called them
sample sized. You could call
them, you know, medium sized,
Lego sized. I've seen people
extend both of those applications
and make them into more
interesting things, whether or not
they choose to open source.
The thing that they derive
from that is really up
to them. But I don't
know if, if I had
a really great idea, if
I had a Twitter sized
idea, I would probably go
and talk to, to legal
and, and see that I
could turn it into a
commercial thing. And I would
hope that you would do
the same as well. So
Scott think got, I've got
a question here, Scott. Okay.
So let's look at this
from, from the other stated
goal of code plex.org is
to, to help facilitate not
only developers working on, on
open source, but also to
help. What am I trying
to say, corporations to use
open source? So shouldn't one
of their targets be Microsoft
itself. What's the, one of
the first things you install
on any windows machine. If
you want to do any
kind of graphics manipulation, and
you don't have Photoshop, it's
probably paint.net, right? So like
paint.net on the DVD instead
of, instead of including ms.
Paint, I mean it was
painted. Yeah. So just to
make sure that everyone heard
that you saying that why
isn't paint.net paintbrush, right? Why
didn't it literally replace it?
What is it? It's that
good? Why isn't it a
replacement? Right. So, and, and
most of the arguments that
I've heard of Ben, you
know, well, we can't vet
the pedigree or we don't
own the IP and blah,
blah, blah. We don't want
to take the hit. And
so maybe, maybe one of
the first things that this
this foundation can do is,
is see if they can
get more open for shipping
on Microsoft DVDs. I take
where was a, was a
good first step. Let's see
if we can get some
more in there. Yeah. That
is a, that's a really
good point. I know that
the people who there are
a lot of people who
are interested in the code
books foundation at Microsoft at
the, at the highest levels.
And I, I hope that
we'll hear more and more
from those people. I'm only
excelling and advisor, and I've
heard general managers and different
people talk. You know, if
we start hearing from vice
presidents and stuff who can
start speaking to their interest
in this, maybe the foundation
will provide a bridge for
Microsoft to do just those
things, right? I mean, Linux
distributions can, can fill their
DVDs up with great open
source products, not paint.net. In
the example that you gave
is not in fact, an
open source project, paint.net recently
went closed source. But I
think that the point is
still there now. So we
just said, and hibernate versus
entity framework, how Microsoft found
a project that is going
against the core technologies. You're
basically asking the question that,
you know, that if the
hibernate decided to come over
to covid.org, wouldn't Microsoft be
funding, something that was a
going against them. And if
they were they're competing against,
this is the kind of
the fundamental point, and we
should probably get ready to
end the call at this
point, which is that codex.org
is not Microsoft. It's Microsoft
seed money. And certainly Microsoft
is interested in pushing it
in a certain direction, but
it can only Microsoft can
only push code such foundation
as far as it has
control over the board of
directors and things like that.
I think that I would
like to see a world
where the code flex foundation
pushes back a little bit,
gets it gets powerful enough,
gets interesting, you know, interesting
enough that it can put
a little pressure on Microsoft
to, to change things. I
think that an an independent
foundation is the only way
that this is gonna work.
So I, I can't stress
enough that as someone who's
watching this from the, from
the inside that I would
really like to see it
be independent. And I don't,
I don't, you can, you
know, it's all out in
the open. If you see
something happening around the Kotex
foundation that you don't think
is transparent, then you should
sound the alarm as the,
as the, as the public.
And as, as, as interested
individuals, you should talk to
the governance and the people
in charge of the foundation
and say, I don't think
that's cool. Does that help?
It makes sense to me.
I think one of the
reasons that code Plex is
there, especially the.org version is
to sort of give Microsoft
the freedom to not duck
those questions. But the answer
it's an impossible answer for
corporation to go well, we
fund someone doing something against
our core technologies. I don't
even think of the stakeholders.
You know, the stockholder should,
should deal with it. So
by sending this off to
a.org, I think their definitive
answer to that question is
we're going to let it
happen, but we certainly don't
need to directly pour our
dollars into it. And I
think that's a reasonable answer
for a corporation. Yeah. And
I hope that you have
HP and you have IBM
and everyone else who wants
to get involved in fund.
When you have a healthy
foundation, you've got a foundation
that has more as funding
from multiple locations. Just like
when you have a healthy
company, you have a company
that's making money from many
places so that the money
stops. If you know, if
Microsoft stops funding, the Copa
foundation, that it's got funding
from other places too, to
keep going and keep doing
what it, what it means
to do. Hey, Scott, there's
a big call for people
to get involved. How do
you recommend to individuals get
involved outside of just talking
about it until, until it
becomes clear on the website?
So it's getting filled out.
Cause as I understand it,
they're moving into offices and
doing stuff like that, getting
servers and all these kinds
of things, getting infrastructure, I
think you emailed Sam Ramji
and you emailed the email
addresses of the people on
the board of directors. So
if you want to get
involved, start by emailing your
manifestos to them. I think
that that's, that's what, that's
what I would do. If
you email me, I'm going
to add, I'm going to
just add them to the
email address. That's what I'm
going to do when it
comes to the copex foundation.
Cool. All right. Well, this
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes, the strangest episode
ever as we hopped from
social networking site to social
networking sites. And now as
Firefox begins to lock up,
I'm going to see if
I can push the end
button and hopefully this, this
has been recorded and will
be up on my website
tomorrow. Thanks everyone for participating.
I really appreciate it. .